Usage limit best practices | Claude Help Center Skip to main content API docs Release notes How to get support English Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 한국어 Português Pусский 简体中文 Español 繁體中文 English Search ⌘ K Claude Release notes Get started with Claude Get started with Claude What are some things I can use Claude for? Where can I access Claude? How up-to-date is Claude's training data? What interfaces can I use to access Claude? Choose a Claude plan Verify your phone number How to gift a Claude subscription How to redeem a Claude gift subscription Account management Log in to your Claude account How to get support How do I change the email address associated with my account? I would like to input sensitive data into my chats with Claude. Who can view my conversations? How do I log out of all active sessions? Export your Claude data Delete your Claude account Why is a coupon or promotion not available for my account? Managing your active sessions Understanding your billing address and tax calculation Notice regarding consumption tax (JCT) for Japanese customers Configuring session security settings How to get support for Claude for Government Public Sector FAQs Claude 4 Invite Contest Conversation management Delete or rename a conversation Share and unshare chats Use incognito chats Use Claude’s chat search and memory to build on previous context Why Claude switched models in your conversation with Fable 5 or Fable 5.1 Why Claude switched models in your conversation with Opus 5 Public links for shared chats Share a chat with specific people Features and capabilities What are artifacts and how do I use them? Publish and share artifacts When should I use web search, extended thinking, and research? Enable and use web search Use research on Claude Can Claude produce images? Upload files to Claude Create and edit files with Claude How does Claude handle mathematical equations and calculations? What are projects? Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) for projects What are skills? Use skills in Claude How to create custom skills Browse skills, connectors, and plugins in one directory Use Claude for Excel Use Claude in Xcode Use Claude in Microsoft Foundry Use Claude for PowerPoint Visual and interactive content Import and export your memory from Claude Work across Microsoft 365 apps Use Claude for Microsoft 365 with third-party platforms Custom visuals in chat and Cowork Use dictation in Office agents Use Claude for Word Available beta and research preview features Use Claude Security Get started with Claude Design Set up your design system in Claude Design Use Claude for Outlook Use plugins in Claude See your monthly recap Get started with Claude Science Personalization and settings Understanding Claude's personalization features Customizing your appearance settings How to use Claude in your preferred language Change the model, effort, and thinking settings Set break reminders and quiet hours Troubleshooting Troubleshoot Claude error messages Claude is providing incorrect or misleading responses. What’s going on? Claude is producing links that don’t work and falsely claiming that it has sent emails or produced external documents. What’s going on? Adapt to new model personas after deprecations Usage and limits Usage limit best practices How do usage and length limits work? Buy usage bundles Use the Claude Agent SDK with your Claude plan Claude Fable models on your plan Pro and Max plans General How large is the context window on paid Claude plans? Paid plan billing FAQs Why was my card declined? Add or update your paid Claude account’s tax or VAT ID Why am I being asked to verify my payment method? Cancel your Pro or Max subscription How can I create and manage projects? Request a refund for a paid Claude plan Manage usage credits for paid Claude plans Understanding your Pro or Max plan invoices Pro plan What is the Pro plan? How do I sign up for the Pro plan? How to change your Pro plan from monthly to annual billing Max plan What is the Max plan? How do I sign up for the Max plan? Team and Enterprise plans Plan overviews What is the Enterprise plan? What is the Team plan? Claude Team plan for scientists Get started Get started with the Team plan Move your personal Claude account to a Team or Enterprise organization Find and join a Team or Enterprise organization Migrate your organization from Team to Enterprise Join an organization via invite link Respond to an Enterprise domain claim on your Claude account Claude Code on Console to Enterprise migration Set up Claude for Teachers for your school or district Billing How is my Team plan bill calculated? Team plan billing FAQs Change your Team plan from monthly to annual billing Add or update your Team plan's tax or VAT ID Cancel your organization's Team plan subscription How am I billed for my Enterprise plan? Understanding your Team plan invoices Admin management Roles and permissions Purchase and manage seats on Team plans Purchase and manage seats on Enterprise plans Manage members on Team and Enterprise plans Claude Enterprise consumption guide Manage usage credits for Team and seat-based Enterprise plans Manage user feedback settings on Team and Enterprise plans Disable public projects for your organization Manage plugins for your organization Account management FAQs Manage groups and group spend limits on Enterprise plans Manage custom roles on Enterprise plans Set up role-based permissions on Enterprise plans Set organization instructions Claude Design admin guide for Team and Enterprise plans Claim and migrate accounts on your domain Designate support contacts for human support Claude Enterprise Admin API reference guide Claude Enterprise activation promo for Claude Code and Cowork Set a default model for your organization Restrict verified-domain connectors to your Enterprise Manage model access for your organization Create surveys for your organization Analytics and usage View usage analytics for Team and Enterprise plans Configure a custom OpenTelemetry collector for Office agents Use analytics chat to ask Claude about usage Capabilities Manage project visibility and sharing Use enterprise search Use visual and interactive content on Team and Enterprise plans Provision and manage skills for your organization What is Claude Tag? Get started with skill and plugin scanning Security and compliance Does Anthropic Act as a Data Processor or Controller? Can you delete data that I sent via Team and Enterprise plans? How can I access the personal information that Anthropic has on my account? What happens to a user's data when they are removed from a Team or Enterprise organization? Export your organization's data Who owns and manages the data of my team? HIPAA-ready Enterprise plans Data retention practices for Covered Models Configure custom data retention controls for Enterprise plans Enable US-only inference for your organization Access audit logs Access the Compliance API Get started with Claude Compliance API integrations Restrict access to Claude with IP allowlisting Enforce network-level access control with Tenant Restrictions What are customer-managed encryption keys (CMEK)? Inference hooks overview Identity management (SSO, JIT, SCIM) Important considerations before enabling single sign-on (SSO) and JIT/SCIM provisioning Set up single sign-on (SSO) Set up JIT or SCIM provisioning Switching to a different Identity Provider (IdP) How SCIM sync works for Enterprise organizations Setup by identity provider Google Workspace SSO setup Microsoft Entra ID SSO setup Okta SSO setup OneLogin SSO setup Ping Identity SSO setup Troubleshooting by identity provider Google Workspace SSO/SCIM email mismatch Microsoft Entra ID SSO/SCIM email mismatch Okta SSO/SCIM email mismatch OneLogin SSO/SCIM email mismatch Ping Identity SSO/SCIM email mismatch Claude Cowork Get started with Claude Cowork Use Claude Cowork safely Use Claude Cowork on web, desktop, and mobile Use Claude Cowork on Team and Enterprise plans Use the built-in browser in Claude Cowork Set up browser use in Claude Cowork for Team and Enterprise plans Use artifacts in Claude Cowork Schedule recurring tasks in Claude Cowork Assign tasks from anywhere in Claude Cowork Organize your tasks with projects in Claude Cowork Let Claude use your computer in Cowork Monitor Claude Cowork activity with OpenTelemetry Claude Cowork architecture overview Claude Code Claude Code model configuration Use Claude Code with your Pro or Max plan Automated Security Reviews in Claude Code Use Claude Code with your Team or Enterprise plan Claude Code usage analytics Manage API key environment variables in Claude Code Claude Code FAQ Claude Code on the web Set up Code Review for Claude Code Use Claude Code CLI with a screen reader Launch guides Your first day in Claude Code Models, usage, and limits in Claude Code Troubleshoot Claude Code installation and authentication Give Claude context: CLAUDE.md and better prompts Claude Code cheatsheet Claude Code user FAQ Claude Code power user tips Claude Code: Common developer use cases Claude Code communications kit Claude Code champion kit Claude Desktop General Install Claude Desktop Deploy Claude Desktop for Windows Deploy Claude Desktop for macOS Enterprise configuration for Claude Desktop Use quick entry with Claude Desktop on Mac Open Claude Desktop with a link Desktop extensions Enabling and using the desktop extension allowlist Deploying enterprise-grade MCP servers with desktop extensions Getting Started with Local MCP Servers on Claude Desktop Claude Mobile apps General Use dictation on Claude Mobile Use voice mode Minimum age requirement access restriction Open the Claude mobile app with a link Claude for iOS Install Claude for iOS How do I sign up for Claude Pro on the Claude app for iOS? Use Claude app intents, shortcuts, and widgets on iOS Access Claude for iOS on your Lock Screen, Control Center, and Action button How to update Claude for iOS Use Claude with iOS apps Claude for Android Install Claude for Android How do I sign up for Claude Pro on Claude for Android? Use the Claude widget on Android How to update Claude for Android Use Claude with Android apps Claude API and Console Use the Claude API and Console How can I access the Claude API? Where is the Claude API supported? Log in to your Console account I created a Claude Console organization - how do I start using the Claude API? How do I use the playground? Cost and Usage Reporting in the Claude Console Creating and managing Workspaces in the Claude Console I have a paid Claude subscription (Pro, Max, Team, or Enterprise plans). Why do I have to pay separately to use the Claude API and Console? Claude Console roles and permissions Manage user feedback settings on Claude Console About the Development Partner Program Anthropic's AI for Science Program Customizing your Console appearance settings Inviting members to the Claude Console Find and join a Console organization Assign a program to workspaces in Claude Console Claude API usage and best practices Our approach to rate limits for the Claude API I’m planning to launch a product using the Claude API. What steps should I take to ensure I’m not violating Anthropic’s Usage Policy? What should I do if I suspect my API key has been compromised? I’ve been using other large language models (LLMs) to power my product. How should I alter my prompts when switching to Claude? API Key Best Practices: Keeping Your Keys Safe and Secure How can I get higher rate limits on the Claude API? Pricing and billing How do I pay for my Claude API usage? How can I learn more about Claude API pricing? Add or update your Claude Console organization's tax or VAT ID Understanding your Claude API invoices API troubleshooting Where can I find your API documentation? I’m encountering 429 errors, and I’m worried my rate limit is too low. What should I do? Where can I go for Claude API support and assistance? I'm getting an API connection error. How can I fix it? How can I check connectivity to the Claude API? API FAQ Can I have a Claude account and a Console account? Can I use the Claude API for individual use? What is the External Researcher Access Program? How can I delete my Claude Console account? API prompt design Introduction to prompt design Claude’s response to my prompt is too brief. My prompt isn’t giving me a helpful answer. API and distillation Preserved thinking: changing how the Messages API handles thinking blocks to protect against distillation Connectors General Use connectors to extend Claude's capabilities When to use desktop and web connectors Manage Claude’s tool access Anthropic Connectors Directory FAQ Anthropic Software Directory Policy Anthropic Software Directory Terms How Claude suggests connected apps Authorize MCP connectors for your entire organization Pre-Built Connectors Use Google Workspace connectors Use the GitHub integration Connect to Microsoft 365 Set up the Microsoft 365 connector Microsoft 365 connector security guide Use interactive connectors in Claude Get started with 1Password for Claude Custom Connectors Get started with custom connectors using remote MCP Claude in Chrome Get started with Claude in Chrome Claude in Chrome permissions guide Use Claude in Chrome safely Claude in Chrome admin controls Claude in Chrome troubleshooting Claude for Education Get started with Claude for Education at your university (for Owners/Admins) Use Claude for Education at your university Set up the Claude LTI in Canvas by Instructure Who owns and manages the data of my Claude for Education account? Privacy and legal Where can I learn more about Anthropic's Privacy practices? Business Associate Agreements (BAA) for Commercial Customers What Certifications has Anthropic obtained? What is Anthropic’s policy for handling governmental requests for user information? Why am I receiving an 'Output blocked by content filtering policy' error? I think a user is infringing my copyright or other intellectual property. How do I report it? How do I view and sign your Data Processing Addendum (DPA)? Why am I receiving an 'Output blocked by content filtering policy' error? Updates to our Acceptable Use Policy (now “Usage Policy”), Consumer Terms of Service, and Privacy Policy Consumer Terms of Service Updates Terms of Service Updates Official Anthropic marketing email addresses Report, block, and remove content from Claude Does Anthropic crawl data from the web, and how can site owners block the crawler? Online Safety Contacts Claude 4 Invite Sweepstakes Official Rules Designated point of contact for users in the EU Can I use my Outputs to train an AI model? Report a concern: Australian DIS Standard compliance Unauthorized Anthropic stock sales and investment scams Covered Models Covered Models under a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) Using Claude for Legal Work: Privilege, Confidentiality, and How to Think About Configuration Claude for Teachers: your data and our terms How Claude marks AI-generated content Safeguards Our Approach to User Safety Exceptions to our Usage Policy Safeguards warnings and appeals API Safeguards Tools Law Enforcement Requests Responsible Use of Anthropic's Models: Guidelines for Organizations Serving Minors Report, block, and remove content from Claude CSAM Detection and Reporting Public Vulnerability Reporting Using Agents According to Our Usage Policy Creating a new account after deletion Model Safety Bug Bounty Program Crisis Helpline Support in Claude Identity verification on Claude Real-time cyber safeguards on Claude Opus and Sonnet Age assurance on Claude Child safety guidance for developers Amazon Bedrock What is Amazon Bedrock? How do I get access to Claude in Amazon Bedrock? I use Claude in Amazon Bedrock. Who do I contact for customer support inquiries? How do I learn more about Amazon and Anthropic’s strategic collaboration? Where do I find Claude in Amazon Bedrock documentation? What AWS Regions are Claude models available in Amazon Bedrock? Claude for Government Get started with Claude for Government SSO login Set up SCIM in Claude for Government Organization instructions in Claude for Government MCP connectors MCP: Individual connectors MCP: Web Search Model availability in Claude for Government Classification banner in Claude for Government All Collections Claude Usage and limits Usage limit best practices Usage limit best practices June 2, 2026 Copy for LLM The number of messages you can send will vary based on your Claude plan. For more information on your plan’s usage, refer to the following resources. Free Claude Pro plan Max plan Team plan Enterprise plan Additional factors that affect your usage limits include: Message length File attachment size Current conversation length Tool usage (e.g., Research, web search) Model choice Effort level Artifact creation and usage Our system also includes caching that helps you optimize your limits: Content in projects is cached and doesn't count against your limits when reused. Similar prompts you use frequently are partially cached. Claude remembers context from earlier in the conversation. 1. Start by planning your conversations Before starting a conversation with Claude, consider the following: What specific information or assistance do you need? Can you combine multiple related questions into a single message? Is there any background information you can provide upfront? Planning helps reduce the number of back-and-forth messages needed. 2. Be specific and concise Provide clear, detailed instructions or questions in each message. Avoid vague queries that may require clarification. Include relevant context to help Claude understand your needs better. 3. Use Claude's chat search and memory capabilities All users can follow these guidelines to take advantage of Claude's memory within a single chat: Refer back to previous information instead of repeating it. Use phrases like "As mentioned earlier" to build on earlier parts of the conversation. Users with paid plans (Pro, Max, Team, and Enterprise) can prompt Claude to search through previous conversations and reference relevant information in new chats. Giving Claude access to additional context prevents you from needing to provide the same information repeatedly. Learn more here: Searching past chats with Claude Users with paid plans (Pro, Max, Team, and Enterprise) can use Claude's memory and project summaries to build context across conversations. Learn more here: What is Claude's memory? 4. Batch similar requests in one message If you have multiple related tasks or questions, group them in a single message. For example, instead of sending separate messages for each math problem, send them all in one message. 5. Review and edit your prompt before sending Take a moment to review your message for clarity and completeness to reduce the need for follow-up messages. 6. Use project knowledge bases effectively Projects offer significant caching benefits: When you upload documents to a project, they're cached for future use. Every time you reference that content, only new/uncached portions count against your limits. This means you can work with the same documents repeatedly without using up your messages as quickly. Example: If you're working on a research paper and add all your reference materials to a project, you can ask multiple questions about those materials while using fewer messages than if you uploaded them each time. Projects offer a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) mode allowing for expanded project knowledge capacity. Learn more here: Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) for projects 7. Monitor your consumption in Usage settings If you're using a Pro, Max, Team, or seat-based Enterprise plan, you can navigate to Settings > Usage to view progress bars showing how much of your five-hour session and weekly usage limits you’ve consumed. The Plan usage limits section at the top shows your progress towards both your session limit and weekly limits. Current session: How much of your plan’s five-hour session limit you’ve used thus far, plus the amount of time remaining in the session. Weekly limits: Check when your plan’s weekly usage limit resets for Opus only and all other models. Usage credits: If you are using a Pro, Max, Team, or seat-based Enterprise plan, your usage settings page will also show how much of your plan's limit you've used. Refer to these articles for more information about enabling usage credits depending on your plan: Manage usage credits for paid Claude plans Manage usage credits for Team and seat-based Enterprise plans If your organization is on a usage-based Enterprise plan, you won’t have specific usage limits, but will be charged based on consumption. You can also track this in Settings > Usage . 8. Quick caching tips Use projects for anything you'll reference multiple times. Upload your core working documents to the project knowledge section when starting a project. The more you use the same content, the more benefit you get from caching. Best practices for specific use cases For coding tasks Provide complete context about your coding environment in your initial message. Include entire relevant code snippets in one message for reviews or debugging. For writing assistance Outline requirements, target audience, and key points comprehensively. Send entire texts for editing in one message rather than breaking them up. For research and analysis Clearly define your research question and focus areas initially. Provide all relevant data in a single, well-structured message. By following these best practices, you can make the most efficient use of your Claude plan's message allocation. Did this answer your question? Related Articles How large is the context window on paid Claude plans? How do usage and length limits work? Manage usage credits for paid Claude plans Buy usage bundles Models, usage, and limits in Claude Code On this page 1. Start by planning your conversations 2. Be specific and concise 3. Use Claude's chat search and memory capabilities 4. Batch similar requests in one message 5. Review and edit your prompt before sending 6. Use project knowledge bases effectively 7. Monitor your consumption in Usage settings 8. Quick caching tips Best practices for specific use cases Product Research Company News Careers Terms of Service - Consumer Terms of Service - Commercial Privacy Policy Usage Policy Responsible Disclosure Policy Compliance